Okay we know what we're going to build.
Why don't we get busy doing that and we'll start off by creating general project setup which by the
way you're gonna do for most of your projects anyway.
But before we get too carried away let me give you an A brief explanation of why I chose to use CSX
floats for our layout instead of legs box.
Great.
Now first and foremost it's very simple.
We haven't covered flex box or agreed yet so it only makes sense that we're using only the tools that
we have talked about during our tutorial.
Second as you're progressing in what development you'll still see a bunch of code using as well.
And it only makes sense that you would have at least general understanding how floats work.
Are you going to use floats once you learn about legs box Ingrid.
Probably not.
But to have at least basic knowledge of floats we're only going to benefit you as a side note if you
don't want to bother roll this video and fall along how we're setting up the folder structure.
You can just get the set of files and then when I say folder structure meaning we're going to get images
the font awesome custom fonts as well as general CSO setup.
Again if you want to skip that just go to the resource of this video and you're going to get the set
of files which are going to include exactly everything that we're doing.
So first things first we would need to start with a folder structure.
Now what does that mean.
Well I am on my desktop and I can just say that there is going to be new folder and let's say and rename
this I'm going to rename this T station.
This is going to be my beautiful product or product project name.
So far so good.
What else we're having.
Well we need a text that are right and we're gonna say there's going to be a text that are gonna open
up my text that are then we're going to set up our first indexation email so let's write indexation
the email let's get our basic structure with our Emmett.
Brief suggestion and now that I have this now basically once I have the next session email why don't
we open up in the browser.
So here I'm gonna say that I would like to open up the browser and that again we can use all kinds of
option for this.
And basically what we are doing is we are using right now the visual studio called Live preview.
Now I'm going to set them side by side so I'm going to say that there is gonna be side by side.
My project as well as my little side browser window where we can see everything that we're going to
be doing throughout the project.
And here let me write first of all title and let's write the station and I'm gonna write recording.
Now you don't have to do that but I would like to play side by side.
My final project which is the one that we're recording right now.
So I might as well distinguish them somehow.
MARGARET So we have all this good one else we're having.
Well I'm going and like I said open up the new browser window and here I'm gonna say one twenty seven
so I know this is gonna be where my project and you know it by the way just so we can see that we actually
have the project.
Let me write some think one with basic low world where I know that.
Okay so this is gonna be my project NOW FOR NOW.
YOU KNOW WHAT I WILL gonna zoom this out meaning I'm gonna have the full browser window and now let
me look for my project.
So here I believe the name was changed the amount and something T station.
So this is gonna be our final project and I'm gonna set this on the left hand side so as we're working
we're gonna be able to see the bigger browser window off our the project that we're currently working
as well as the finish line.
So that way I can always explain hey listen guys.
So now we're gonna be working this section then we're going to move onto that section and so on and
so forth.
Now let me head over back to my desktop and let's see what we're gonna have.
Well I talked about the set of files so if you want to skip all this chatter that I'm doing right now
just head over to the set of files and then we have the folder structure.
Well do we have the complete folder structure.
I don't think we do at the moment.
So let me open up the right now the folder and first let me create some kind of I don't know folder
that I can name either images or AMG where you guessed that already we're going to be keeping our images.
So I'm gonna say who are here images the long one and then we might as well go get the images.
I don't see why not.
Because since we already have the folder we can right away go and look for images.
Now for the images there's gonna be few options that we can use again.
There is grab Instagram feed their pixels nearest pixel Bay.
I'm gonna go with pixels.
You can again choose whatever option suits your needs.
And let me go to our good old friend Google.
I'm gonna save pixels and within the pixels all I did was royalty.
Now this is gonna be the case where I'm going to be checking what kind of images I had.
So I believe I had this guy.
So let me head over back and let me find the image.
So I believe this is this one.
And let me save image now.
The naming is technically not important but in the sense that if I'm gonna be referring to my files
some kind of name you just need to remember that if you named your files differently then obviously
this is gonna be the case where you need to follow the your own syntax.
And I believe my when I called about BCG or you know what.
No.
My apologies it was main BCG.
So this was the main background.
And this is how I'm saving this then I'm gonna see the other one.
What I had.
So let me check the other image.
This was the about one.
So I'm looking for this kettle.
Hopefully I'm gonna be able to find it.
So the kettle was here and we're gonna say save him in jars then we're gonna have here about BCG so
this was the involved BCG and then I had three for the product.
So this one was here the second one on the third one.
Now let me head over again back to the pixels and this is going to be the tricky one I believe that
one of them must pressure this guy so I can right away save him in jars and then I can write product
let's say one or two it doesn't really matter I just named them product one two three.
That was my naming but I don't think it really matters which one you're actually placing there.
So I believe this guy was the number one.
Yeah I believe so it's a as well we would like to save this.
So in this case this is going to be already product number two and you already see that I'm making a
mistake right now my my mistake is that I'm not saving this thing in images.
So that is not correct.
So let me fix this.
Let me say that.
Product number two is gonna be in images.
And what I would like to do right now is head over back to my folder structure and grab all these images
that I have right now.
Copy and paste it or saved it on my machine and I'm gonna get rid of them.
So I would like to say that I can either copy them or we can just move them into the images because
that was obviously the whole point why we had the file to begin with.
Now what else we can do well I can head over back to the actual file and get rid of them.
Can say you know what.
I don't need them right now on my project route I need them in my image responder.
Now there's going to be one more thing that we're gonna do with the cropping.
But before we do that let me just get the last image and I think it's gonna be really pain because I
already forgot which one was which.
So let me double check.
So this was this guy.
So cattle with a flower.
And if you see it please scream so that I can hear that if I scrolled maybe two down too much.
Keep on scrolling oh there it is.
There is an image.
So let me say product number three.
And I'm wondering why none of you help me as I said please scream once you see the image.
I don't he.
I didn't hear anybody screaming so I am very disappointed in you.
OK so this is gonna be our image number three.
Now what I did is again I use the quick and dirty way where I used Mac for help.
So I selected all three images then we can do open with and just because I would want them all to be
the same size and I know that this is a little bit annoying.
So let me just grab this one.
This is not what I would want.
Thank you for using.
Well yeah okay.
So that's all good.
I don't want to rate you.
Let me move this guy a little bit smaller.
Again my apologies then I would like to select them all and once I have all the images then we're going
to do adjust the size and I went again kind of brutal way where I just went 800 by 600.
As always you can use obviously Photoshop for days but since I don't want to get into all this right
now I would like to use this quick and dirty way where we're just using the Mac for that and for now
we would have all our images the same way.
I think that should cover the images and again let me get my little notebook where it tells me what
we're doing.
So we have a set of files we had some kind of folder structure we did talk about it now there's going
to be more things to it but for now this is going to be good and then we're looking for the font awesome
icons the nice icons that we can add to our project there's going to be two ways that we can do it.
Well first of all we need to go to their web page and remember we had an option of let's say starting
using free and you can just use the CDM.
However I don't know where in future you are watching this.
So if the version has changed if the version is not anymore it's 5.2 or whatever.
Well most importantly if it's something like six I believe they're not going to change manually if you're
watching let's say five point nine but if you're already watching six that means that they have maybe
made some adjustments to it.
So if you're watching this in a future which obviously you will and I think you're going to be watching
this in the past.
But if the version has changed then you do need to get the same folder where I'm gonna have my fantasy
I'm downloaded and actually using local in our project.
So that's something to remember if the version is somewhat similar obviously you can just copy and paste
the CDM and then we'll have to head over back to our document and somewhere here we're going to have
obviously the CDM.
Now maybe let's do right after title let's say font awesome answer.
Let's say this is gonna be whatever the CDM that you would need to copy and you know what.
Right after this maybe let's write custom.
Because this is where our CSI style is gonna live more as our city assess file.
Sorry not style but file okay.
If you are watching this in future why don't we go over also how I'm going to be done on this in the
first place.
So let's say I'm going to be looking for the download then remember within download there right away
told us that there's many options we can choose.
Well I'm going to be choosing this one and for this I would need them on this first and then I'm gonna
head over to my downloads.
Hopefully there are gonna be empty so there's not going to be a bunch of files and actually this state
from already tutorial already.
So what I can do is I can just open up again the new one just so you can see that it's there and what
I'm gonna do is I'm gonna drag and drop the file.
I could have just drag and drop it right away maybe into the folder that would have made a little bit
more sense and then we're looking for is all synapses.
Now it is important that you drag and drop the folder.
This is exactly what they're saying because if you're just gonna drag and drop the one file that you
would need let's say all say it says it's not going to work people know okay Phantasm how are we gonna
get phantasm.
We know we can use the link tag and within the line tag we just need to specify this.
So I'm looking for the folder name.
And again as a side note if you rename this folder anything different then you need to look for that
folder.
Please don't rename this orange and then be upset that if you're looking for Phantasm you're not able
to find it.
Then we have this useless folder then within the instance folder.
Damn.
Drumroll please.
We do have our phantasm.
Well maybe I got too carried away already.
Maybe let me double check.
Remember the syntax was the tag and then I'm gonna use the immature kids right now where I'm going to
say a face halfway home my probably most favorite one and let's write F.A. AND almost 6 x just so we
have the massive font awesome image and now I can do the drumroll because we do have the phantasm so
we have covered successfully that I can right away may be right and we close it as well as pixels with
only pixels.
And let me go again back to my sticky note and let's see what I have next.
I have found awesome icons awesome.
We covered that and then we have custom font custom ones we're going to use Google funds for the now
let me look for first of all Google fonts.
And here I'm gonna be obviously going to the gold funds.
And again right away I can apologize if my spelling is not awesome or maybe not spelling sorry pronunciation
because I'm gonna be looking for I believe it pronounced cut to my round again I might be wrong.
You can laugh all day long but that's unfortunately how I pronounce it.
So let me read this card.
My round and we're getting basically this one.
So this is gonna be my phone that I'm looking for.
However with this point I would like to customize it a little bit.
So there's going to be a regular one and there's gonna be the bold one let's say 700.
That's gonna be my option.
Also I'd like to look for one more so I can minimize this guy and instead of cut down Maran I'm purposely
not pronouncing if I'm saying this wrong.
Hopefully this doesn't make you laugh because believe it or not it does make me laugh.
Grand Hotel is gonna be my second one which you already can tell we're gonna be using as our styling
option.
So if you would want some text to send out we're gonna use this grand hotel and what we have right now
is gonna be two of them.
If I'm gonna head over again to embedding you'll notice that I have two of them.
So you know what.
No I won't.
My apologies I didn't have the font so I keep on talking as if I would have to funds but I don't know
the load time is gonna be moderate and yes I agree that probably is not something you're looking for
but for a first project really I don't think we need to worry about it too much.
So let's say we have two options again we can import it in the CSX or we can just have it as a link
again to have it as a link just copy and paste it here within your I don't know let's say right after
phantasm.
Now just switch things around.
I'm going to do import and we're gonna be importing this in our CSX.
Now the question is.
Well you don't have to CSX.
Yeah that's true.
But don't we know how to make the CSX file a new file and the name is gonna be against Stiles CSX.
As always you can name this whatever your heart desires but you do need to link it because we can write
here whatever you'd like.
It is not going to work my friends because if we haven't linked it so I'm going to say links or I'm
linking this right now it's late then I'm looking for the Stiles the name of your file don't mix and
match them if you named as something weird also link this to something we're OK.
We have all this covered so now within the styles I would like to copy and paste it.
These are going to be my files or I'm sorry my fonts.
We have successfully imported them so far so good.
What else we have.
Well then we have these font family but before we work hard on the font families and adding them why
don't we also do the general CSA setup like when the variables and reset which we will gonna reuse all
throughout the project now how this is gonna work.
Let's see.
So first of all I would like to do the reset.
Remember we had those default padding the margins and I would just like to get it in now quick and dirty
where it would be something like this where we are selecting all the elements.
I'm gonna say all the elements.
I don't know why I'm choosing the max with that.
That is not what I want.
I wanted margin margins in the zero padding is gonna be you guessed it zero.
And then whoever knows the answer for this guy can watch the next videos for free.
Which by the way you're watching anyway because you have only one cause but obviously that was my lame
attempt on being sarcastic but we're looking for box sizing which is gonna be equal to the border.
But again just to recap the reason why we're using this border box because as we having let's say some
kind of padding or border we wouldn't want our device or our elements or boxes to expand would want
to set some kind of width and then the changes should be applied to the box itself not by making the
box bigger.
Then we also know that we can use the CSA as wearables.
Remember those guys and where I would want to use them.
Well I think I'm going to my I might be wrong but I think I would want to use them all throughout the
project.
What was the way for doing that.
Well we had a route.
We had this selector not just random selector by the way.
This was our pseudo selector and now I'm selecting my email and within this nation email element I would
like to set up my variables here.
This is where the colors are going to come in and you know what I have to apologize I messed up a little
bit on my sticky note as well as you know what I'm gonna add a new one.
So I'm going to say general setup is gonna have colors my apologies I did mess that one up.
Let me make this bigger so just so you can see it a little bit better.
Now let me make this one may be smaller.
And now we have colors so successfully we also have a color because I didn't cover the color.
However may be our first thing should be dealing with the funds because right now we have to find families
that we need to include.
And I kind of keep on ignoring them.
So why don't we do this.
Why don't we first of all within the route create our first variable where we're gonna call this slanted
text.
As always you can name this whatever you like.
This is just gonna be holding your value.
And if somebody gets annoyed by the fact that I'm going to say as always you can name this where you're
like.
I know but I kind of need to repeat this because so people don't think that there's some kind of secret
syntax that you need to use because these two dashes might look overwhelming and a beginning.
I do agree with that.
You're like looking you're liking.
Okay there's two dashes there's probably this name has to do something with a text.
Well no.
This is just a container that's holding your value.
So don't get too hung up on this.
I just called a slanted text because the text is gonna be slanted.
I could have called this.
Johnny is great.
It will work exactly the same way.
Slide the text.
And now I'd like to use my font family remember.
And in this case I'm gonna be using this grand called.
So let me grab this guy and let's say that this slanted text is gonna be equal to this one family.
Now I copy and pasted everything and that is not correct because I only need the value here.
So my slanted text is going to hold this value.
Then every time I like to use the font family for this not next I'm just gonna grab this.
And that would be number one just to finish with the font so we're done with them and we don't need
to carry about them.
Let's do body and for the whole body.
This is where I wouldn't want to use the other one.
The famous catamaran and yeah I purposely didn't like a Russian version just so it sounds even funnier.
But our catamaran right now is in our project.
So that is all good.
So that would be the basic setup for all our phones.
And then whenever we would like to use them let's say slanted ones we can use this guy.
Now maybe just to test it out just to prove that actually I do make sense.
We have the herring one and why don't we over go here and we will gonna delete this of course.
But let's say for all the heading ones the fun family is gonna be you guessed it drum.
We have the variable not the variable is gonna be slanted text.
Now you can write the long way var this word that and then parentheses or with Visual Studio code you
have a very very nifty setup where just two dashes and then you're looking for your whatever variables
not at the moment we have one GA but later on we're going to multiples on this is this would be a little
bit easier setup.
Now I'm getting my slant indexed and booyah.
We have our heading one that has right now the font family of this grand hotel.
So every time we're gonna use it or I'm sorry every time we're gonna need it we're just gonna grab those
values longer.
What I also would like to add here.
Let's do maybe a line height for the body.
Let's do the full so the whole text throughout the whole document is gonna have some kind of line height
which is gonna be one point five.
Again nothing really specific.
This is very general that you always see.
And then if you want to change the line height and you just add different kind of number and so on and
so forth.
Let me say this you this.
Let me get rid of the font.
I do believe we cover them.
I do believe everything has been covered.
And now let's go over the colors because I'm gonna add some colors again in the road just so we can
access them later.
I'm not going to be looking for these colors right now.
We're going to show you again that we can use the coolers and then within the coolers you can start
your generator and then you can just keep on slamming on the spacebar.
And this is gonna give you the options.
Now this is in general way how you can get the colors and actually you know what this is.
This actually looks very very nice color theme.
So just in case you're wondering yeah you can just pause the video and get these colors because I do
find them real good.
The green one really goes with the gray one and the blue one is also awesome.
Again I I really digress a little bit but this actually came out really good.
Now I'm not going to be using these colors.
I already have the setup colors.
So in the style see assessment and look for wrote and within the rules.
Let's just name our callers.
We can name this differently.
The reason why I'm naming this primary let's say color is the simple fact that even though we're all
gonna be using the green color for this project maybe later on I change it to blue let's say now is
it gonna be big deal if I'm named this let's say Maine green color and then change it.
No no probably not.
But it would help if you will just have some kind of primary color.
Then if you change in the blue it's not confusing to you.
Maybe later on as well as if somebody else is working on a project.
Again this is really a preference.
You'll see a lot where people are using primary colors secondary color but you can name them.
I would say with the white ones I just named the main white and my da because there's always gonna be
some kind of main white and mean darker.
Like I said this is gonna be green.
And now we will gonna type them unless you are actually downloading the set of files of course.
6 9 8 f 3 F and the good news is that this is gonna be the only time we have to type them like this
because the moment I'm gonna start working on the project which is a primary color.
That's it.
Imagine how annoying this would be if I would have to use it like 50 times with hashtag.
6 9 8 f 3 F.
Granted the visual studio code gives you a nice setup so later on you can already do a quick switch
where you're just getting this rather.
But I still think that primary color would be easier to remember than we have the second record that
dairy colors can vary color and we're gonna use this literally in one place.
I believe.
I'm not wrong and this is gonna be the yellow one so f see a 3 1 1 people.
So that's gonna be our yellow one and then we have the like I said mine dark mane dark.
So that would be kind of a black ish one.
So let's say 3 a re e.
And then we have three be very very original name.
So three a three three B and now what.
You know this is not really mean dark.
This is.
Yeah.
Well it kind of is it's kind of dark ish greenish or whatever you call it.
And then I would also have the main White now the main White.
Just gonna be kind of straightforward.
We're gonna say man white and hashtag f.
That's gonna be our main white color as well as I would like to have some men grey one main grey and
let's set it up with hashtag e five E five E five while we're still on a subject on the variables.
Why don't we set up the transition a letter spacing and I kind of understand it's a lot for this video.
You might be like Hey listen you know this set of video and all that.
Yeah.
But once we're done with the setup this is gonna be a smooth sailing.
If we already set up everything.
And I think this is gonna be much more faster going to say main transition.
Again this is gonna be just my variable name and how we did we work with transitions.
What was the general setup.
Remember we had the properties.
So in my case I'm just gonna say all of them.
So on the properties and then I'm going to be looking for some kind of timing and the key here is very
simple.
I'm gonna say Here zero point three and all throughout the document we're all gonna be using our transitions
we will going to use the zero point three if we would like to change something else we can just come
here and change the value and that way we're going to access it all throughout the document or we can
rewrite the new transition but let's say if we're using transition and like I don't know six places
I do find it much more easier if we just set it up in one place you know variables you technically don't
have to do it but I'd just like to do it that way and then let's write Easy in and out.
Remember this was by default ease you can maybe write linear.
This could also probably work but I'm just gonna go with ease in and out.
And last but not least as far as our variables are concerned are gonna be letter and then we're looking
for spacing and again this is just my naming and four letter spacing remember we had some kind of values
in my case I would like to use zero point five grams and now we set up the letter spacing for the whole
document.
Now we're not using honestly this value right now but this should generally help us out whenever we
are working with any kind of document to set up these variables.
Now the moment I'm gonna start using the variables I will gonna head over back here I will gonna cover
again what we did and why we did and maybe that might be annoying for somebody but in my case I think
that kind of solidifies the knowledge that we had but in general this would be our shut up and now we
can start working on our project.